When World War II erupted in 1939, nearly every organized religion sent its members into the battle.
French and American Catholics killed German and Italian Catholics.
British and American Protestants killed German Protestants.
Jehovah's Witnesses wanted to make it clear that they were no part of this controversy.
The watchtower of November 1st, 1939, reasoned,
how could a person who is devoted to God's kingdom favor one side or the other in a conflict between factions of the world?
It defined what neutrality meant.
We're not pacifists. Jehovah is not a pacifist. Neither is his son Jesus Christ.
And when it comes to being in support of some cause, we were 100% in support of the kingdom.
And so we could not engage in any of the world's controversies or share in their war efforts.
This stand would lead to their persecution by dictatorships and democracies around the world.
This is something that is so fundamental to Jehovah's people.
They are absolutely no part of the world.
They must be strictly neutral when it comes to any conflict between the nations.
There's no other people that are entirely neutral with regard to the world.
But Jehovah's people are.